Introduction:

My self Ajaykumar Ambati Professional Software Engineer with more than 3.6 years of experience in AWS cloud platform. involved in projects like
Infrastructure deployment, cost optimization, cloud migrations, and Management of AWS production accounts.

•	Worked with Lift & Shift project where customer landscape migrated to Cloud (AWS) 
•	Hands-on Cloud Endure Migration tool 
•	Have a good understanding of Cloud Domain (IAAS and PAAS).
•	Working Experience in Clouds like AWS.
•	Good communication and interpersonal skills with strong work ethics.

Company name : Currently I am working in YTEK INNOVATIVE (OPC) PVT LTD, Bengaluru.

Salary : 4.8 Lakhs per Anum 

is mainly into outsourcing, developing and consulting company.
Company Address : 3rd Floor, Tushar Arcade, Service Rd, Naagarabhaavi, Bengaluru, 
Karnataka 560072


Linux:

What is top command In Linux? 

The top (table of processes) command shows a real-time view of running processes in Linux and displays kernel-managed tasks.

What does awk command in Linux?

Awk is a utility that enables a programmer to write tiny but effective programs in the form of statements that define text patterns that are to be 
searched for in each line of a document and the action that is to be taken when a match is found within a line. Awk is mostly used for pattern
scanning and processing.


Tell me what are commands you know in linux?

To create new directory-Mkdir,to createfile-touch <> filename ,listing files in directory -ls, to find the pathe of current working folder-pwd,
to navigate  through linux files and directories-cd
To create file-cat
to move the files-mv
to create new directory-mkdir
To remove or delete directory-rmdir (or) rm-r
to create a blank new file through linux-touch
To locate a file-locate/find
to search throudh all th text in a given file-Grep
To perform tasks that requires administrative or root permissions-sudo
To report systems disk space usage-df
To review commands-history
to add text in file-echo
to create user-useradd
to add a passwrd-passsrd
to check the connectivity status-ping

I want to replace a word in a file, which command you will use?

From the Home tab, click the Replace command. Alternatively, you can press Ctrl+H on your keyboard. The Find and Replace dialog box will appear.

What is the command used to check the free space?

That command is df -H. The -H switch is for human-readable format. The output of df -H will report how much space is used, available, percentage used

how to verify free memory?

Linux free -m
The most common way you'll see on the web to check for free memory in Linux is by using the free command. Using the free -m command to check your
 Linux memory usage,
displays the values as MB instead of KB.

how to extend volume?

To extend the file system on each volume, use the correct command for your file system, as follows:
[XFS volumes] To extend the file system on each volume, use the xfs_growfs command. ...
[ext4 volumes] To extend the file system on each volume, use the resize2fs command.

GIT:

what is your branching strategy?

A branching strategy, therefore, is the strategy that software development teams adopt when writing, merging and deploying code 
when using a version control system. It is essentially a set of rules that developers can follow to stipulate how they interact with a shared codebase.

what is diff between git fetch and git pull?

git fetch is the command that tells yowhat is diff between git fetch and git pullur local git to retrieve the latest meta-data info from the original 
(yet doesn't do any file transferring. 
It's more like just checking to see if there are any changes available). git pull on the other hand does that AND brings (copy) 
those changes from the remote repository.

what is git rebase?

Rebasing is the process of moving or combining a sequence of commits to a new base commit. Rebasing is most useful and 
easily visualized in the context of a 
feature branching workflow.

what are webhooks?

Webhooks allow you to build or set up integrations, such as GitHub Apps or OAuth Apps, which subscribe to certain events on GitHub.com.
 When one of those events is triggered, we'll send a HTTP POST payload to 
the webhook's configured URL.

Jenkins:

what is your jenkins architecure?

The Jenkins CI server checks the repository at regular intervals and pulls any newly available code. The Build Server builds
 the code into an executable file. In case the build fails, feedback is sent to the developers. Jenkins deploys the build application
 to the test server.

what is master and slave?

The Jenkins master acts to schedule the jobs, assign slaves, and send builds to slaves to execute the jobs. 
It will also monitor the slave state (offline or online) and get back the build result responses from slaves 
and the display build results on the console output.

how you will add slave to master?

Jenkins Master Slave Configuration
Then click on the option Manage Nodes.
Click on the option New Node in the left menu.
Provide a name for your slave node. ...
After Clicking OK, following configuration page will appear for machine Slave1. ...
After selecting Launch Method as Launch agent via Java Web Start, save changes.

what are different types of jenkins pipeline?

scripted and declarative pipeline

Declarative pipelines break down stages into individual stages that can contain multiple steps.
 Scripted pipelines use Groovy code and references to the Jenkins pipeline DSL within 
the stage elements without the need for steps.

What is Declarative pipeline syntax?

Declarative Pipeline is a relatively recent addition to Jenkins Pipeline which presents a more simplified and 
opinionated syntax on top of the Pipeline sub-systems. All valid Declarative Pipelines must be enclosed within a pipeline block,
 for example: pipeline { /* insert Declarative Pipeline here */ }


what are plugin you used in jenkins?

JUnit Plugin
The most common types of build in Jenkins are the ones that test the application. By default, Jenkins can run JUnit tests and 
it provides you with the test results.
 If you want to get more insight into the test trends, you will need this plugin.

how to take backup of jenkins?

Follow the steps given below to have a backup in place.
Step 1 − Click on Manage Jenkins and choose the 'Manage Plugins' option.
Step 2 − In the available tab, search for 'Backup Plugin'. ...
Step 3 − Now when you go to Manage Jenkins, and scroll down you will see 'Backup Manager' as an option. ...
Step 4 − Click on Setup.


I have a senario - we have declerative pipeline with multi stages, one stage is failing but i want to proceed with next stage. what you will do?
How do I continue Jenkins pipeline after failed stage?

Use try/catch around stage 2. ...
or built-in catchError which also will mark the build red in case of exception. ...
Thank you for the excellent comments @EngineerDollery and @izzekil. ...
The closest I could get is to catch the failure, save the failed stage, then after the last stage finishes, set the failed stages as "FAILURE".

AWS:

tell me what are services you worked in aws?

> Ec2,S3,AmazonS39 For fast data transfer,Amazon Dynomo DB, Amazon RDS,VPC,Cloud front9 High speed data transfer),
AWs beansstalk(supports running & managing 
web applications),Auto scaling,s3,glacier,AWs I am, Amazon cloudwatch, Route 53

what is public and private subnets?

> A public subnet is a subnet that's associated with a route table that has a route to an internet gateway, there is no IGW for Private

we have instance in private how to connect to s3?

>  You need to have a NAT device running in public subnet. So that the instance in private subnet of VPC can access internet via NAT and access S3
if we lost pem key how we will recover

> First, create a new instance by creating new access file, call it 'helper' instance with same region and VPC as of the lost pem file instance.Now stop
 the lost pem file instance. Remember not to terminate instance but to stop it. Go to EBS volumes, select the root volume of the lost pem file instance 
and detach

what are s3 policies?

> S3 bucket policy is an object that allows you to manage access to specific Amazon S3 storage resources

what are cloudfront?

> Amazon CloudFront is a web service that speeds up distribution of your static and dynamic web content

what is alb?

> Application Load Balancer (ALB) is a fully managed layer 7 load balancing service that load balances incoming traffic across multiple targets

what you worked in alb?
> yes

have you used cloudwatch?
>yes

have you crarted any triggers and alarams?

> Login to the AWS Management Console and choose AWS Chatbot. Choose Configure new client notice option to select either Chime or Slack. Select
 Slack and choose Configure

> What is Route 53 and when it is used?

Amazon Route 53 is a highly available and scalable Domain Name System (DNS) web service. You can use Route 53 to perform three main functions in 
any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking. Your website needs a name, such as example.com.

Ansible :

How do you create role in Ansible?

Step 1: Create Ansible Role – vhost.
Step 2: Create ansible tasks.
Step 3: Create ansible handlers.
Step 4: Create ansible template.
Step 5: Remove unwanted directories (Optional)
Step 6: Create post execution tasks.
Step 7: Create ansible role playbook.

what are handlers in ansible?

Sometimes you want a task to run only when a change is made on a machine. For example, you may want to restart a service if a task updates the
 configuration of that service, but not if the configuration is unchanged. 
Ansible uses handlers to address this use case. Handlers are tasks that only run when notified.

how you will run ansible playbook?

Run Your First Command and Playbook. Install Ansible. Establish a manual connection to a managed node. Run your first network Ansible command. Create and run your first network Ansible Playbook. ...
Use Ansible network roles.
Beyond the basics.
Working with network connection options.
Resources and next steps.

terraform:

what are modules in terraform?

A Terraform module is a set of Terraform configuration files in a single directory. Even a simple configuration 
consisting of a single directory with one or more .tf files is a module. 
When you run Terraform commands directly from such a directory, it is considered the root module.

what is statefile?

Terraform stores information about your infrastructure in a state file. 
This state file keeps track of resources created by your configuration and maps them to real-world resources.

what happenes if statefile is deleted?

The terraform state rm subcommand removes specific resources from your state file. This does not remove the resource from your configuration or 
destroy the infrastructure itself. Change into your root directory.

how to import manually a module or resource into statefile?

To import a simple resource into Terraform, follow the below step-by-step guide.
Prepare the EC2 Instance. ...
Create main.tf and Set Provider Configuration. ...
Write Config for Resource To Be Imported. ...
Import. ...
Observe State Files and Plan Output. ...
Improve Config To Avoid Replacement. ...
Improve Config To Avoid Changes.

what is terraform taint?

The terraform taint command informs Terraform that a particular object has become degraded or damaged. Terraform represents this by 
marking the object as "tainted" in the Terraform state, 
and Terraform will propose to replace it in the next plan you create.

docker:

How do you write a Dockerfile?

Get started with Docker Compose
Step 1: Setup. ...
Step 2: Create a Dockerfile. ...
Step 3: Define services in a Compose file. ...
Step 4: Build and run your app with Compose. ...
Step 5: Edit the Compose file to add a bind mount. ...
Step 6: Re-build and run the app with Compose. ...
Step 7: Update the application.

what is different b/w add and copy in docker?

COPY is a docker file command that copies files from a local source location to a destination in the Docker container.
 ADD command is used to copy files/directories into a Docker image. 
It only has only one assigned function. It can also copy files from a URL.

what is diff between cmd and entrypoint?

They both specify programs that execute when the container starts running, but: CMD commands are ignored by Daemon
 when there are parameters stated within the docker run command. ENTRYPOINT instructions are not ignored but instead are appended as
 command line parameters 
by treating those as arguments of the command

how to secure docker images in docker?

Best practices to secure Docker containers
Regularly update Docker and host. Make sure that Docker and the host are up-to-date. ...
Run containers as a non-root user. ...
Configure resource quotas. ...
Set container resource limits. ...
Keep images clean. ...
Secure container registries. ...
Monitor API and network security.

how to verify logs of container in docker?

First of all, to list all running containers, use the docker ps command. Then, with the docker logs command you can list
 the logs for a particular container. Most of the time you'll end up tailing these logs in real time, 
or checking the last few logs lines

How do I get into a Docker container's shell?

Using the Docker run command to run a container and access its shell.
Using the Docker exec command to run commands in an active container.
Using the Docker start command and attach a shell to a stopped container.

how to check running and stopped containers?

This guide shows you how to list, stop, and start Docker containers.
A Linux-based operating system. ...
As you can see, the image above indicates there are no running containers. ...
To list containers by their ID use –aq (quiet): docker ps –aq.
To list the total file size of each container, use –s (size): docker ps –s.

kubernetes:

tell me master and worker compoenets in kubernates?

A Kubernetes cluster consists of a set of worker machines, called nodes, that run containerized applications. 
Every cluster has at least one worker node. The worker node(s) host the Pods that are the components of the application workload.
The control plane manages the worker nodes and the Pods in the cluster.

what are manifest files in kubernetes?

A Kubernetes Manifest files are the heart of Kubernetes. These plaintext configuration files describe how a pod's containers should
 be run and connected to other objects, such as services or replication controllers. Kubernetes uses a declarative model rather than an
 imperative model for Pod specification.

what are configmaps and secrets in kubernetes?

Both ConfigMaps and secrets store the data the same way, with key/value pairs, but ConfigMaps are meant for plain text data, 
and secrets are meant for data that you don't want anything or 
anyone to know about except the application

what are namespaces in kubernetes?

Namespaces are a way to organize clusters into virtual sub-clusters — they can be helpful when different teams or projects 
share a Kubernetes cluster. Any number of namespaces are supported within a cluster, each logically separated from others 
but with the ability to communicate with each other.

How do you create a cluster in Kubernetes?

How to Create a Kubernetes Cluster on Ubuntu 16.04 with kubeadm and Weave Net
Step 1 - Get each server ready to run Kubernetes. ...
Step 2 - Set up each server in the cluster to run Kubernetes. ...
Step 3 - Setup the Kubernetes Master. ...
Step 4 - Join your nodes to your Kubernetes cluster

monitoring:

Cloudwatch is a monitering tool in AWS

database:

A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system.

Which database is best in AWS?

In general, you will find RDS, DynamoDB, and DocumentDB to be good initial choices with wide support for tooling, languages, 
and flexible data usage patterns. In this article, we discuss a variety of databases: relational,
 document, key-value, graph, in-memory, and search.